# CS-320
Testing is one of the most important parts of the SDLC and is how I can learn if my program functions as intended and is secure. Analyzing the requirements of my client is the first step of this process because you need a good understanding of what your client wants from the software. I’ve seen that some teams begin writing test cases before the software is even developed but I think this is a mistake because it creates bias in your development. What ends up happening is the developers tailor the software to pass test cases when it should focus on the client’s requirements and can lead to many problems down the road. To understand user need’s, user stories and feedback should be incorporated into every iteration of the program. This assumes that the team is taking an agile approach to managing this project and doing this during every iteration helps fine tune your software to meet the needs of the user. The user is the bottom line for your client because it is who the software was intended for so involving them in the development process is crucial to creating functional programs. The way I approach designing software is still very primitive because my lack of experience. I try to use flowcharts to get a visual of how my program is supposed to work and then use a lot of trial and error. I still don’t have a deep knowledge of what works and what doesn’t when coding, so I do an enormous amount of incremental testing. I try to test any small change to my code just to make sure my new changes haven’t broken anything I’ve already built. It may lengthen the development process, but I feel that it helps me develop very functional code because it gets tested so thoroughly and often. Once I finish creating my program, I try to write test cases that test every possible outcome. From what I learned throughout this course, test coverage is important because it helps you understand all possible outcomes within each branch of your software. Not knowing the outputs of certain areas of your program is like trying to find a needle in a haystack while you’re blindfolded which can lead to major damage to not only your company’s reputation but also your own reputation as a developer and is extremely careless.
